[Feature] Support disco-diffusion text-2-image (#1234)
open-mmlab/mmediting: configs/disco/README.md

> # Disco Diffusion(Google Colab)

Reviewer: why do you need `(Google Colab)`. A little confusing..

Author: For common case, we will write conference name here. However, this is a colab notebook instead, maybe we can remove this. What's your opinion?

> # Disco Diffusion(Google Colab)

Reviewer: It seems that you want to provide a tutorial here. Then, I will suggest provding an outline at the beginning.

Author: We will offer a `jupyter` notebook contain tutorials.

> 

Reviewer: this folder should be named as `disco_diffusion` rather than `disco` to align with the implementation of models.

> [](<>)

> **Task**: Text2Image

<!-- [ALGORITHM] -->

## Abstract

<!-- [ABSTRACT] -->

> Disco Diffusion (DD) is a Google Colab Notebook which leverages an AI Image generating technique called CLIP-Guided Diffusion to allow you to create compelling and beautiful images from just text inputs. Created by Somnai, augmented by Gandamu, and building on the work of RiversHaveWings, nshepperd, and many others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Disco Diffusion (DD) is a Google Colab Notebook which leverages an AI Image generating technique called CLIP-Guided Diffusion to allow you to create compelling and beautiful images from text inputs. 

Created by Somnai, augmented by Gandamu, and building on the work of RiversHaveWings, nshepperd, and many others.
```

Reviewer: Or move the contributors to the section `Credits`

Author: > Please DO provide UT to ensure basic correctness.

Sure.

<!-- [IMAGE] -->

> <div align=center>

Reviewer: add a table, which is similar to the section of `models and results` as other models, to describe the function and difference of each config file.

<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/22982797/201001789-7ef108a0-f607-401e-98dc-4e16d6be384f.png"/>
</div>

> ## Models Card

Reviewer: If you haven't prepared for this section, remove it or leave `coming soon`

## Quick Start

In order to get started, we introduce a simplest way to get an image within 6 line of codes.

```python
from mmengine import Config, MODELS
from mmedit.utils import register_all_modules
register_all_modules()

disco = MODELS.build(Config.fromfile('configs/disco/disco-baseline.py').model).cuda().eval()
text_prompts = {
    0: ["A beautiful painting of a singular lighthouse, shining its light across a tumultuous sea of blood by greg rutkowski and thomas kinkade, Trending on artstation.", "yellow color scheme"]
}
image = disco.infer(height=768, width=1280, text_prompts=text_prompts, show_progress=True, num_inference_steps=250, eta=0.8)['samples']
```

## Advanced Tutorials

For detailed description and advanced usage.

### Overall Architecture(In Construction)

### Infer Settings

> For fixed Disco-Diffusions, there are several runtime settings.

Reviewer: what does 'fixed Disco-Diffusions' mean?

Author: For a defined `DiscoDiffusion` Model

> 1. Image Resolution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**1. Image Resolution.**
```

Reviewer: Or rename it as `1. Text-to-image`

>    Despite the limit of your device limitation, you can set height and width of image as you like.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can adjust the height and width of images according to your device.
```

> Performing code,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running the following codes, 
```

```python
from mmengine import Config, MODELS
from mmedit.utils import register_all_modules
register_all_modules()

disco = MODELS.build(Config.fromfile('configs/disco/disco-baseline.py').model).cuda().eval()
text_prompts = {
    0: ["A beautiful painting of a singular lighthouse, shining its light across a tumultuous sea of blood by greg rutkowski and thomas kinkade, Trending on artstation.", "yellow color scheme"]
}
image = disco.infer(height=512, width=1024, text_prompts=text_prompts, show_progress=True, num_inference_steps=250, eta=0.8)['samples']
```

get

<div align=center>
<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/22982797/201041058-b47a897c-852e-4b78-9627-48706dade1d5.png"/>
</div>

> 2. Initial image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**2. Initial image.**
```

Reviewer: Or rename it as `2. Image-to-Image`.

   You can set the initial image for your art work, simply set `init_image` to your image path. By set `init_scale`, you can adjust the similarity of initial image and your result.

> **Note**: Make sure you set `skip_steps` to ~50% of your steps if you want to use an init image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: Set `skip_steps` as about 50% of the total steps if you want to use an init image.
```

> For example, Take this picture as initial image

Reviewer: what does `init image` mean? 
btw, you can use Grammarly to fix this document.

<div align="center">
  <br/>
  <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/22982797/201272831-81f2b1f4-3e28-4468-8e84-b7c52ad74e11.jpg" width="800"/>
</div>

> Note that, `init_scale` need to be set in config, this field is contained in `loss_cfg`.

Reviewer: what does `init_scale` and `loss_cfg` mean?

```python
from mmengine import Config, MODELS
from mmedit.utils import register_all_modules

register_all_modules()
config = 'configs/disco/disco-init_scale20.py'
disco = MODELS.build(Config.fromfile(config).model).cuda().eval()
text_prompts = {
    0: ["a huge dragon, human like, flying with flame, and two big wings"]
}
image_path = 'PATH/TO/INIT_IMAGE'
image = disco.infer(width=1280, height=768, init_image=image_path, text_prompts=text_prompts, show_progress=True, num_inference_steps=250, skip_steps=150, eta=0.8)['samples']
```

and get

<div align="center">
  <br/>
  <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/22982797/201273268-ce775eeb-fb9d-4997-a3f6-b93835593f36.png" width="800"/>
</div>

Then we use default `init_scale=1000`

```python
from mmengine import Config, MODELS
from mmedit.utils import register_all_modules

register_all_modules()

> config = 'configs/disco/disco-baseline.py'

Reviewer: instead of using two config file to set different value of `init_scale`, you can change this value by `cfg.init_scale=1000`

disco = MODELS.build(Config.fromfile(config).model).cuda().eval()
text_prompts = {
    0: ["a huge dragon, human like, flying with flame, and two big wings"]
}
image_path = 'PATH/TO/INIT_IMAGE'
image = disco.infer(width=1280, height=768, init_image=image_path, text_prompts=text_prompts, show_progress=True, num_inference_steps=250, skip_steps=150, eta=0.8)['samples']
```

and get

<div align="center">
  <br/>
  <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/22982797/201273252-3e9d1293-5a83-4ca1-a177-b9fa2639ba14.png" width="800"/>
</div>

> 

Reviewer: add a todo list to list the tasks you plan to support.

### Unet Settings(In Construction)

### Clip Models Settings(In Construction)

### Cutter Settings(In Construction)

### Diffuser Settings(In Construction)

> ### Loss Settings(In Construction)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Loss Settings
coming soon
```

> ## Citation

Reviewer: You can add some sections for `credits` , `license` here.
